[Ariel]
Sosostris is a fraud in a mundane world pretending to be supernatural. Her insights are cheap. Her warning "Fear death by water," is a simple, superstitious terror. It is only the ghost of Shakespeare that injects this with life and true fear, and these fears are confirmed by Section IV. Ariel is the shock of the real supernatural breaking into the tawdry fortune-telling.

[Epigraph]
“Nam Sibyllam quidem Cumis ego ipse oculis meis
vidi in ampulla pendere, et cum illi pueri dicerent:
Σίβυλλα τί θέλεις; respondebat illa: ἀποθανεῖν θέλω.”

Before we embark on this epic work, T.S. Eliot tells us a simple message. This will not be easy. This poem will speak to you in languages you do not understand. It will quote literature you have not read. Voices will fade in and out and in again like turning the dial on a transistor radio. He wastes no time to warn us that if we are not willing to cut through the tall grass of his masterpiece, do not even bother.

The epigraph is a quotation from the Satyricon, an ancient Roman novel attributed to Petronius that comes down to us through time in sparse fragments, not unlike the fragmented juxtaposition of the Waste Land. This passage comes from a dinner party, whose host Trimalchio boasts of his adventures,

“‘As for the Sibyl, I saw her with my own eyes at Cumae, suspended in a bottle,’ Trimalchio informed his guests, and when the boys asked her, ‘Sibyl, what is your wish?’, she would reply, ‘I want to die’”.

Even this obscure reference, quoted without translation, is only given meaning by Ovid’s separate account in The Metamorphosis. Ovid explains that the Sibyl was a woman desired by Apollo, who offered her a wish in order to seduce her. She asked Apollo to grant her as many years of life as there were grains of sand in a pile. Apollo, seizing on the fact she had forgotten to request eternal youth, granted this wish, offering that she could remain forever young if she would sleep with him. Sibyl refused. 

Now, having watched generations be born and die, kingdoms rise and fall, and witnessed the world crumble into the bleak state of Eliot’s Waste Land, the only thing left to enjoy is death itself.
